OIDC add claims to headers (#8594)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/enterprise/options/extauth/v1/extauth.proto.sk.md

---
### ClaimToHeader

 

> Specifies how to map a single claim

Reviewer: Map a single claim from an OAuth2 token to a header in the request to the upstream destination.

Author: Ended up tweaking to say OAuth2 or OIDC token

```yaml
"claim": string
"header": string
"append": bool
"source": .enterprise.gloo.solo.io.ClaimToHeader.Source

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 

> | `claim` | `string` | Claim name. for example, “sub”. |

Reviewer: I think these are currently taken from the similar JWT [section](https://docs.solo.io/gloo-mesh-enterprise/latest/reference/api/jwt_policy/#jwtpolicyspec-config-provider-claimstoheader), but I was wondering if we could update them for grammar.

```suggestion
| `claim` | `string` | The claim name from the token, such as `sub`. |
```

or leave the " in, if those are needed but still put in code ticks, like `"sub"`

> | `header` | `string` | The header the claim will be copied to. for example, “x-sub”. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `header` | `string` | The header to copy the claim to, such as `x-sub`. |
```

> | `append` | `bool` | If the header exists, append to it (true), or overwrite it (false). |

Reviewer: Can we also add what the default behavior is?
```suggestion
| `append` | `bool` | If the header exists, append the claim value to the header (true), or overwrite any existing value (false). The default behavior is to overwrite any existing value (false).  |
```

> | `source` | [.enterprise.gloo.solo.io.ClaimToHeader.Source](../extauth.proto.sk/#source) | Which token to retrieve the information from. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `source` | [.enterprise.gloo.solo.io.ClaimToHeader.Source](../extauth.proto.sk/#source) | Specify which token to retrieve the claim information from. |
```

---
### Source

 

> Where to retrieve information for the mapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify which token to retrieve the information for mapping a claim to a header.
```

| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 

> | `AccessToken` | Retrieve the value fom the OAuth2 access token |

Reviewer: Does this also require another field to be set somewhere in the policy, to get the access token in the first place or something like that?

```suggestion
| `AccessToken` | Retrieve the value from the OAuth2 access token. |
```

> | `IdentityToken` | Retrieve the value from the OIDC identity token |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `IdentityToken` | Retrieve the value from the OIDC identity token. |
```

| `dynamicMetadataFromClaims` | `map<string, string>` | Map of metadata key to claim. Ie: dynamic_metadata_from_claims: issuer: iss email: email When specified, the matching claims from the ID token will be emitted as dynamic metadata. Note that metadata keys must be unique, and the claim names must be alphanumeric and use `-` or `_` as separators. The metadata will live in a namespace specified by the canonical name of the ext auth filter (in our case `envoy.filters.http.ext_authz`), and the structure of the claim value will be preserved in the metadata struct. |
| `disableClientSecret` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | If true, do not check for or use the client secret. Generally the client secret is required and AuthConfigs will be rejected if it isn't set. However certain implementations of the PKCE flow do not use a client secret (including Okta) so this setting allows configuring Oidc without a client secret. |

> | `claimsToHeaders` | [[]enterprise.gloo.solo.io.ClaimToHeader](../extauth.proto.sk/#claimtoheader) | Optional: What claims should be copied to upstream headers. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `claimsToHeaders` | [[]enterprise.gloo.solo.io.ClaimToHeader](../extauth.proto.sk/#claimtoheader) | Optional: Map a single claim from an OAuth2 token to a header in the request to the upstream destination. |
```
